# KUBERNETES SYSTEM LOG COLLECTOR
This collector is designed to collect realtime **Events** and **Metrices** generated by kubernetes system, **Pod Logs** generated by all the pods that are running on that system and give freedom to store these data in **Elasticsearch** on your cloud or on local system.

## Features
- One step deployment using shell script.
- Freedom to installing each component separately. If your don't want all components.
- Freedom to store data on Local or on Cloud Elasticsearch.
- Collects Logs, Metrices and Events Generated by Cluster.

## Getting Started
### Prerequisite
- Docker [*url*](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- Kubernetes cluster (Minikube) [*url*](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
- Helm version 3 [*url*](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- python3 [*url*](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/download-and-install-python-3-latest-version/)

### Install all components with default configuration
It will deploy five pods on kubernetes for performing different operations such as fetching kubernetes data, storing it and performing different operation on generated data.
1. node-exporter pod which generates prometheus logs. 
2. Elasticsearch pod which will be use to store data generated by all components. 
3. kibana pod to perform different operations on data. 
4. logcollector pod which fetches Pod logs and Event logs and store these into Elasticsearch. 
5. Metriccollector pod which fetches Metric logs and Prometheus logs generated by node-expoter and store these in Elasticsearch.
#### `./agents.sh`
### Install Specific Components
- **Logcollector (Pod Logs and Events) with Elasticsearch** 
- `./agents.sh -l`
  - This will deploy Logcollector, Elasticsearch and Kibana pods. 
  - The logcollector pod will fetch logs generated by all the pods and Events occured in kubernetes system then store these under podslog and eventslog indicies respectively in Elasticsearch. 
  - You can easliy view these data using kibana.
 
- **Metriccollector (Metrices) with Elasticsearch**
- `./agents.sh -m`
  - This will deploy Metriccollector, Elasticsearch and Kibana pods. 
  - The metriccollector pod will fetch Metric logs(CPU and Memory uses in percentage) generated by each pod and Prometheus pod will fetch all the logs generated by prometheus then store these under metriclog and prometheuslog indices respectively in Elasticseach.
  - You can easliy view these data using kibana.

- **Elasticsearch with kibana**
- `./agents.sh -e`
  - This will only install Elasticsearch and Kibana pods. 
  
## Access Components After Deployment
Run `minikube ip` to get your minikube ip address, which will help you in accessing different components.
- **Access Elasticsearch**
  - `http://minikubeip:32000`
- **Access Kibana**
- `http://minikubeip:32002`
- **Access Prometheus**
  - For accessing prometheus you need to get the URL on which application is running then you need to forward the port to access it on your host system.
     - `export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace aiops -l "app=prometheus-node-exporter,release=node-exporter" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")`
     - `kubectl port-forward --namespace aiops $POD_NAME 9100`
   - After above steps, prometheus will be available on
     - `http://localhost:9100`
    
 






